ADDECHO(3)

NAME
        addecho - adds echo to a given .wav file

SYNOPSIS
        addecho [-d delay] [-v volume_scale] source_file.wav dest_file.wav
  
DESCRIPTION

        The addecho function manipulates .wav files to add an echo effect. It takes as input a source .wav file and produces a new .wav file with an echo 
        effect applied.
        
        The echo effect is achieved by creating a delayed copy of the original audio signal and adding it back to the original. The delay and the volume scale 
        of the echo can be customized by the user, allowing for a wide range of echo effects to be created.

        The delay is specified in samples. A larger delay will result in a longer gap between the original sound and its echo, while a smaller delay will result
        in a shorter gap. The delay can be manipulated by the user using the -d OPTION, as shown below.

        The volume scale determines the loudness of the echo relative to the original sound. A larger volume scale will result in a quieter echo, 
        while a smaller volume scale will result in a louder echo.

        The addecho function reads the source .wav file, applies the echo effect, and writes the resulting audio data to dest_file.wav file. It ensures that the 
        header of the .wav file is correctly updated to reflect the new size of the audio data.

        The amount of delay and volume scaling can be manipulated using options in the command line:

        -d delay
            Sets the delay for the echo effect, in samples. The delay must be a positive integer. If this option is not provided, the default delay is 8000 samples.

        -v volume_scale
            Sets the volume scale for the echo effect. The volume scale must be a positive integer. If this option is not provided, the default volume scale is 4.
 
RETURN VALUES
        The addecho function returns:

        0   If the program runs successfully.
        
        1   If the usage syntax is incorrect, it failed to read in the source_file, or it failed to allocate memory for the echo_buffer.

EXAMPLES
        Compiles addecho.c into addecho executable and then takes in door.wav, a .wav file in the same directory, and adds an echo with delay of 12000 samples
        and volume scaling of 4:

            $ gcc -o addecho addecho.c
            $ ./addecho -v 4 -d 12000 door.wav door_12000_4.wav

WARNINGS
        - The addecho function overwrites the destination file if it already exists. Users should ensure they don't accidentally overwrite important data.
        
        - The program assumes that the .wav file provided is mono.

        - The volume and delay inputs should be 32-bit integers.

BUGS